tidy up identity claims and ref-vals sections (#20)
thomas-fossati/draft-psa-endorsements: draft-xyz-rats-psa-endorsements.md

* Certification Claims ({{sec-certificates}}), i.e., metadata that describe
  the certification status associated with a PSA device.

> Each type is encoded using a separate CoMID.

Reviewer: Is it mandatory to state that:
Technically an Endorser can stash Reference Values, Identity Claims and Endorsement claims in one CoMID as well ? Correct me, if I am wrong :)

Author: We said identity claims and ref-vals MUST go in different CoMIDs because they will be carried over different APIs.

As per cert claims, they could go in the same CoMID, potentially.  But this would make using explicit linking much more problematic.

## PSA RoT Identification
{: #sec-impl-id}

> Each PSA Endorsement is associated with a well defined immutable PSA RoT.  The

Reviewer: Perhaps this can be simplified to state that 
PSA Immutable RoT is identified by an unique identifier, known as Implementation ID.

Any PSA Endorsement CoMID associated to this Immutable PSA RoT need to have this identifier MUST be encoded in the top-level `element-name-map`.

This way the text become more logical and straight forward!

Author: I agree this is logical and straightforward, but isn't that exactly what it says now?

Reviewer: This is just a suggestion!

Reviewer: Hmmm, the explanation sounded a bit rounded and complicated for a simple thing! I just attempted to simplify it :)

Author: I am completely open to each and every possible simplification.  The problem I'm having is that your suggestion looks exactly the same as the current state.  I am probably wrong but I need you to explain exactly how you want to reflow the current text.

unique identifier of such PSA RoT, known as the Implementation ID (see Section
3.2.2 of {{PSA-TOKEN}}), MUST be encoded in the top-level `element-name-map`
(2) of the CoMID using the `$class-id-type-choice` (2) entry with type
`tagged-impl-id`, as shown in {{ex-implementation-id}}.  Note that this implies

> that each CoMID is scoped to one and one only PSA RoT or, in other words, that

Reviewer: On line 124 you mean
to one and only one

Author: no, I intentionally wanted to use that form :-)

Reviewer: This does not sound right to me, in terms of usage ?

> that each CoMID is scoped to one and one only PSA RoT or, in other words, that

Author: ```suggestion
that each CoMID is scoped to one and only one PSA RoT or, in other words, that
```

> Each PSA Endorsement is associated with a well defined immutable PSA RoT.  The
> unique identifier of such PSA RoT, known as the Implementation ID (see Section
> 3.2.2 of {{PSA-TOKEN}}), MUST be encoded in the top-level `element-name-map`
> (2) of the CoMID using the `$class-id-type-choice` (2) entry with type
> `tagged-impl-id`, as shown in {{ex-implementation-id}}.  Note that this implies
> that each CoMID is scoped to one and only one PSA RoT or, in other words, that
> there cannot be two Endorsements for different PSA RoTs in the same CoMID.

Author: ```suggestion
Each PSA Endorsement, be it a Reference Value, Identity Claim or Certification
Claim, is associated with a well defined immutable PSA RoT.  The association
between a PSA Endorsement and its PSA RoT is obtained by means of the unique
PSA RoT identifier, known as Implementation ID (see Section 3.2.2 of
{{PSA-TOKEN}}).  The Implementation ID MUST be encoded in the top-level
element-name-map (2) of the CoMID using the `$class-id-type-choice` (2) entry
with type `tagged-impl-id`, as shown in {{ex-implementation-id}}.  Note that
this implies that each CoMID is scoped to one and only one PSA RoT.
```

~~~
{::include examples/implementation-id.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-implementation-id title="Example Implementation ID"}

## Reference Values
{: #sec-ref-values}

Reference Values carry measurements and other metadata associated with the
updatable firmware in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier
compares Reference Values against the values found in the Software Components
of the PSA token (see Section 3.4.1 of {{PSA-TOKEN}}).

Each measurement is encoded in a `reference-claim-map` (0) entry inside the
top-level `claims-map` (5).  Specifically:

* The raw measurement is encoded in the `digests-type` (2) of the
  `element-value-map` (1).  The `digests-type` array MAY contain more than one
  entry if multiple digests of the same measured component exist (obtained with
  different hash algorithms).
* The metadata associated with the measurement are encoded in a
  `psa-refval-meta` structure which extends the
  `$$reference-claim-map-extension` socket.
* The optional `element-name-map` (0) MUST NOT be set by a producer and MUST be

>   ignored by a consumer.

Author: we just need to say what to do here

* Certification Claims ({{sec-certificates}}), i.e., metadata that describe
  the certification status associated with a PSA device.

Each type is encoded using a separate CoMID.

> ## PSA RoT Identification

Author: ```suggestion
## PSA Endorsements to PSA RoT Linkage
```

{: #sec-impl-id}

Each PSA Endorsement, be it a Reference Value, Identity Claim or Certification
Claim, is associated with a well defined immutable PSA RoT.  The association
between a PSA Endorsement and its PSA RoT is obtained by means of the unique
PSA RoT identifier, known as Implementation ID (see Section 3.2.2 of
{{PSA-TOKEN}}).  The Implementation ID MUST be encoded in the top-level

> element-name-map (2) of the CoMID using the `$class-id-type-choice` (2) entry

Author: ```suggestion
`element-name-map` (2) of the CoMID using the `$class-id-type-choice` (2) entry
```

The semantics of the codepoints in the `psa-refval-meta` map is the same as the
`psa-software-component` map defined in Section 3.4.1 of {{PSA-TOKEN}}.

A single CoMID can carry one or more Reference Values depending on the chosen
provisioning model (see {{sec-provisioning-model}}).  All the Reference Values
that are found in a CoMID MUST be associated with the same Implementation ID,
encoded in the root CoMID as described in {{sec-impl-id}}.

The example in {{ex-reference-value}} shows the PSA Endorsement of type
Reference Value for a firmware measurement associated with Implementation ID
`acme-implementation-id-000000001`.

~~~
{::include examples/ref-value.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-reference-value title="Example Reference Value"}

## Identity Claims
{: #sec-identity}

An Identity Claim carries the verification key associated with the Initial

> Attestation Key (IAK) of a PSA device.  Each verification key is provided

Author: the problem is we need to be able to automatically verify the examples against the CDDL and avoiding mandatory claims is not an option...

alongside the corresponding device Instance ID in an `identity-claim-map` (2)
entry inside the top-level `claims-map` (5).  Specifically:

* The Instance ID is encoded using the `$device-id-type-choice` (1) entry in
  the `identity-claim-map` with a `tagged-ueid-type` type.
* The IAK public key is set in the `COSE_KeySet` (2) entry in the
  `identity-claim-map`.  The IAK public key is encoded as a COSE Key according
  to Section 7 of {{!RFC8152}} and wrapped in the `COSE_KeySet`. The number of
  items in the `COSE_KeySet` MUST be 1.
* The optional `element-name-map` (0) MUST NOT be set by a producer and MUST be
  ignored by a consumer.

> A single CoMID can carry more than one Identity Claim at a time, for example to

Reviewer: A single CoMID can carry one or more Identity Claim at a time

efficiently supply batches of verification keys associated with a given device
class.  All the Identity Claims that are found in a CoMID MUST be associated
with the same Implementation ID, encoded in the root CoMID as described in
{{sec-impl-id}}.

The example in {{ex-identity-claim}} shows the PSA Endorsement of type Identity
Claim carrying a secp256r1 EC public IAK associated with Instance ID
`4ca3...d296`.

~~~
{::include examples/instance-pub.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-identity-claim title="Example Identity Claim"}

## Certification
{: #sec-certificates}

PSA Certified {{PSA-CERTIFIED}} defines a certification scheme for the PSA ecosystem.

> A PSA Certified Security Assurance Certificate (SAC) may apply to a hardware component, a software component, or an entire device.

Reviewer: possibly one or more software component

Reviewer: We can write taking your context as follows:
A PSA Certified Security Assurance Certificate (SAC) may apply to 
* The underlying platform, identified by the Impementation ID;
* One or more firmware components of the mutable PSA RoT;
* The entire PSA device.

Author: > The underlying platform, identified by the Impementation ID;

this is not correct

> One or more firmware components of the mutable PSA RoT;

The semantics of the codepoints in the `psa-refval-meta` map is the same as the
`psa-software-component` map defined in Section 3.4.1 of {{PSA-TOKEN}}.

A single CoMID can carry one or more Reference Values depending on the chosen
provisioning model (see {{sec-provisioning-model}}).  All the Reference Values

> that are found in a CoMID MUST be associated with the same Implementation ID,
> encoded in the root CoMID as described in {{sec-impl-id}}.

Author: ```suggestion
that are found in a CoMID MUST be associated with the same Implementation ID
as described in {{sec-impl-id}}.
```

The example in {{ex-reference-value}} shows the PSA Endorsement of type
Reference Value for a firmware measurement associated with Implementation ID
`acme-implementation-id-000000001`.

~~~
{::include examples/ref-value.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-reference-value title="Example Reference Value"}

## Identity Claims
{: #sec-identity}

An Identity Claim carries the verification key associated with the Initial
Attestation Key (IAK) of a PSA device.  Each verification key is provided
alongside the corresponding device Instance ID in an `identity-claim-map` (2)
entry inside the top-level `claims-map` (5).  Specifically:

* The Instance ID is encoded using the `$device-id-type-choice` (1) entry in
  the `identity-claim-map` with a `tagged-ueid-type` type.
* The IAK public key is set in the `COSE_KeySet` (2) entry in the
  `identity-claim-map`.  The IAK public key is encoded as a COSE Key according
  to Section 7 of {{!RFC8152}} and wrapped in the `COSE_KeySet`. The number of
  items in the `COSE_KeySet` MUST be 1.
* The optional `element-name-map` (0) MUST NOT be set by a producer and MUST be
  ignored by a consumer.

> A single CoMID can carry more than one Identity Claim at a time, for example to

Author: ```suggestion
A single CoMID can carry one or more Identity Claims, for example to
```
